---
title: Japan 2019 | 2 Weeks in Japan :A Guide for First-Timers
date: '2019-06-24T22:12:03.284Z'
coverImage: './cover.jpg'
tags: ['Japan', 'oriental', 'things-to-do', 'budget']
---

Why Japan for 2 weeks?
While growing up, Japan was this surreal mystic land where men were samurais or kung fu warriors and the women were bright-colored kimono clad, umbrella wielding pretty tarts.The geishas and feng shui had such an ethereal aura that I was left spell bound. The impressions on an innocent mind surely stick for life and when a holiday destination had to be selected I jumped at Japan.

Japan is one of the rare countries which has an interesting mix of the old and the new. You would board the fast paced shinkansen (the bullet train) to be carried to a place where the streets are lined with traditional wooden houses that sing of the Edo period.
There are myriads you hear about this country.From the gigantic electronic shops selling robots and fancy gadgets (like the James Bond movies)to the fetish stores.

While two weeks is a short time to see the entire country, it is enough time to bathe and soak in some authentic Japanese culture.If you ever do make use of my itinerary, at the end of two weeks you would feel like a local even though you would not have seen the entire country (yes we need that as an excuse to go back)

This two weeks guide will cover, day by day guide including things to do ,costs, the best way to get around :
Osaka - 4 days
Kyoto - 3 days
Hiroshima/Miyajima - 2 days (though I would have loved to do more)
Okayama - 3 days
Kobe - 2 days

Heads up : Japan is the official host of Rugby World Cup 2019 and the Tokyo 2020 Olympic games

Complete run down
Day 0 - Transit
Fly to Osaka Kansai airport overnight and get excited about where you will wake up tomorrow

How to get to Osaka from Kansai Airport
There are two lines i.e Nankai and the JR that run trains to Osaka from the airport.
The Nankai is not a rapid express however it is the cheaper alternative at 920 yen

Hot tip : Japan train system can be quite daunting. Most of their train lines are run by private companies and can be very very confusing when you have multiple train stations in one area but it is called by many different names.
For example - Sannomiya is downtown Kobe. There are three major railways that get you to Sannomiya - JR, Hankyu Railway and Hanshin Railway. And there are three more stations, two of Kobe subway and one of Port Liner. Each station is not a big station and the structures are similar.These stations do complicated things and you may be overwhelmed.

Day 1-4 - Osaka
A little word of advice - Do not underestimate Osaka. It may not be as crazy as Tokyo or as cultured as Kyoto but this city will help soften the Japanese knockout especially on your first visit.
Never have I ever seen vending machines for newspapers and vegetables and hot beverages all side by side.

Sights to see

- Dotonbori in Osaka
  Dotonbori is the lively entertainment and tourist favorite district of Osaka. It is famous for the shiny neon lights, extravagant giant plastic sea creatures and effusive restaurants, bars and cafes.The name Dotonbori came from the Dotonbori street that runs parallel to the Dotonbori Canal’s southern bank. In Osaka, it is known for being one of the most vibrant places and if you are in the Kansai area it is a must see location. It is great during the day but you’ll definitely want to see what it’s like at night.

-Osaka Central Fish Market
Yes a fish market!! Would totally recommend going here if you want the local feista that starts every morning at 4 with the frivolous auction of some tuna. Its still open during the day and you could certainly swing by (it is only a 10 minute walk away from the Noda Station) to get a feel of a day in the life of Osaka.

- Denden Town in Nipponbashi 
 It’s the city’s electronics, camera, computer, pop culture, games, and anime shopping neighborhood.
Nipponbashi has been known for having some of the affordable electronics and appliance stores in Osaka. Though electronics and anime merchandise does make up a sizeable part of the neighbourhood’s allure, there’s so much more to Den-Den Town than that.If you time your vacation right, one of the coolest, most interesting experiences you can have is the Nipponbashi Street Festa. Taking place annually on the spring equinox, cosplayers show up in the thousands dressed as their favourite anime or manga characters.Another popular thing is Akihabara(Tokyo) is might be maid cafe mecca, but Den-Den Town doesn’t exactly lose out on that front. Get your dose of high-voltage cute from any one of the maid cafes here and as bonus, the queues here shorter!


- Amerikamura & Koreatown
This street translates to American Village in English.Although there’s really not much about this place that resembles the U.S.,there is a huge statue of liberty replica and this where the punk, goth, biker club meet to create a unique atmosphere to hangout.It is a whooping youth favourite. You must pay a visit just to get a feel of the drastic change in cultures across a single street in the same city.
Koreatown is yet another iconic street .Much as the name suggests,you can find plenty of Korean restaurants to satiate your kimchi cravings. Popular for the cook-it-yourself Korean barbecue,there is a covered market where you can shop for cute Kpop socks and hanbok.

- Shinsekai
This place clearly has character.It is bursting with color and odd display. Makes it perfect for gram opportunity.This is also where you have a 100 meter steel tower ,the Tsutenkaku Tower,which has become a symbol of progress and innovation.It was supposed to resemble the Eiffel Tower, Paris.When you walk around Shinsekai you’ll come across numerous statues of Billiken. This is the local mascot who was originally a good luck charm created by an American. Around the base of the statue are the words “God of Things as They Ought to Be."
Strangely the area  has a reputation for being seedy and dangerous. (Not that we felt unsafe while walking).

Day 4-8 Kyoto
Kyoto is pretty damn special. It is crammed with temples, shrines, castles and legends…
- Arashiyama and sagano
If the is a must do in Kyoto, it is a day trip to this picturesque culturally bosomed place.
Well known for it's bamboo forest, there is so much more to this place than that. This place is clearly underrated and was our personal favourite in Kyoto.
Adashino-Nembutsu-ji and Otagi Nenbutsu-ji were the hidden gems in Kyoto.They are such curious and starkly different temples.The sculptures in each have such significant meaning and so unique that make them a clear "MUST-DO". These temples are at a distance from the tourist areas and still well kept secrets.They so much quieter.
It is the walk to these temples that take to lap of Japanese culture. The cobbled streets are lined with traditional houses with thick wooden roofs and opaque paper for window panes. The walk simply takes you back in time and is so enjoyable (esp with the less tourists). The streets do have souvenir shops so not that authentic.
The Tenryu-ji temple here is one of the 5 temples that make up a UNESCO site. The famously tourist mobbed bamboo groves are also near the temple. These groves are to ward off evil as they are a symbol of strength. We still found awe and serenity walking though this Arashiyama grove as I could see beyond the people and appreciate the peaceful tranquility.

- Fushimi inari Taisha
Famed by the million of bright vermillion Tori gates, this overly touristy place is still a Must do.
Also to thoroughly enjoy the shrine allocate half a day to this place.This shrine is located on a hill and the magical unending passage through the tori gates(Donated by various businesses/organizations with their names on them) seems like pleasant ritual with a hike . Would recommend climbing all the way to the top. You get to see the city layed out infront of you and you can enjoy a matcha softie as you catch your breathe.

- Gion
Gion is famous for Giesha spotting. Gieshas are traditional dinner entertainers. They sang and danced in the candle light at dinner gatherings. To be seen in the dim light,(all the fair skin supreme) they powdered their face white. Apparently there are only a hundred of them in Kyoto,so consider yourself lucky if you spot one.
It is simply entertaining just to walk around the streets of Gion.The famous Yasaka Shrine is here and looks beautiful all lit up in the evenings.

- Kyoto train station
Kyoto has the best of both worlds. Culture and the big retail shopping malls. If you explore the area around Kyoto station(which btw looks like an international airport) has alot of interesting and good eateries. Great Ramen and karaoke bars make an interesting detour.

- Amanohashidate Sandbar
The Amanohashidate Sandbar (天橋立), is a beautiful, three kilometer long isthmus that spans the mouth of Miyazu Bay in northern Kyoto Prefecture. Amanohashidate roughly translates to "bridge in heaven", and it is said that the sandbar resembles a meandering pathway connecting heaven and earth when it is viewed from the mountains at either end of the bay. This famous view has been admired for centuries, and is counted among Japan's three most scenic views alongside Miyajima and Matsushima. It is another definite day trip but mind you a one way journey might take 4 hours i.e. max 8 hours of total commute. Make sure you start your day early for this one.

Backpacking Kyoto

If you can you should try to stay in Gion, the Geisha district; it is crazy colourful. A Japanese friend gave me some tips on the correct etiquette when interacting with Geishas; Never talk to a Geisha or try to stop them for photos as this is considered extremely rude.
Kyoto’s famed Golden Pavilion is well worth a visit; it’s a stunning place to spend half an hour or so quietly contemplating the beautiful gardens set in the shadow of the impressive temple. Unfortunately, the entrance price is pretty steep and often it’s pretty crowded; arrive early.

Nijo-jo is an impressive castle from the outside but is sadly rather empty on the inside; still worth exploring. Kiyomizu-dera (free) is well worth visiting. Dairoku-Ji was my favourite temple complex in Kyoto.
Kyoto upholds formal traditions like Kiseki dining with a Geisha. The bamboo forest is enchanting to stroll through & the nightlife is pretty good here.
There are hundreds of temples and shrines in Kyoto and you could spend a lifetime trying to visit them all. Among the ancient temples, you can also explore the hip, modern side of Kyoto. For more info on the best things to do in Kyoto, chat to the locals or look online!
Consult your guesthouse to find out which temples are nearest to you. I have heard great things about Arashiyama’s bamboo forests, which an easy day trip from Kyoto.
For backpackers looking for an epic trekking adventure, consider going on the Kumano Kodo Pilgrimage Trek. This 3-day hike take you to 5 UNESCO World Heritage sites and even some hot springs so you can soak your weary bones. 
And for more inspiration, check out this guide for where to stay in Kyoto!

We also stayed in Higashiyama, which is filled with charming wooden buildings and picturesque streets. It’s also next to Gion, the famous geisha district and home to the Yasaka Shrine, which we strolled through on our first night. It’s not guaranteed that you’ll see any geisha, but we did see a few throughout our trip. We didn’t take photos as this is frowned upon in the city. We did, however, take photos of the many Japanese tourists who come to Kyoto on a historical pilgrimage and dress up in traditional costumes for the day. There are lot of shops offering this service, and as such a lot of colourfully-dressed people, around the Kiyomizu-dera temple. If you’re keen to see geisha, it’d be worth doing this guided night walk of Gion as the guide is more likely to know where to spot them. Another good spot in Kyoto was the Nishiki Market – it’d be fun to combine a trip there with a cooking lesson like this one.

NISHI HONGANJI AND HIGASHI HONGANJI
The two large Honganji Temples are located in the center of Kyoto. As they are the headquarters of Buddhism, they are a good place to experience the modern day Japanese Buddhism. The West Honganji, or Nishi Honganji, is an UNESCO World Heritage Site. At this temple you can find various structures, with the largest ones being the Geido Hall and the Amidado Hall. Furthermore, at the temple you can admire surviving masterpieces of architecture from the Azuchi-Momoyama Period and early Edo Period, including the Hiunkaku Pavilion.


Kinkaku-ji, also known as the Golden Pavillion; (You can go here by bus)
Kiyomizu-dera, a temple with a balcony that overlooks the city and is the perfect place for sunset; and
Fushimi Inari Shrine, a place you’ve likely seen photos of with its iconic paths lined with red tori gates. 

Must do

Miyama Kayabuki no Sato with many thatched roof houses

Kurama - Hike(Do only if you have time) it is.a train ride from Kyoto. Has a temple on the mountain and an onsen.

arashiyama and sagano
 groves are scattered through Arashiyama but the most well known seems to be the one behind Tenryu-ji temple.
A Kimono Forest? Yeap, you heard that right. Clustered outside Arashiyama station, this breathtaking installation features some of the most impeccable kimono textiles created by artist Yasumichi Morita. All these textiles were dyed using the traditional Kyo-yuzen technique. Read more about this spellbinding attraction here.
Hozu river in summer for cormorant fishing
Oigawa River and Nakanoshima Park
Adashino Nembutsu-ji Temple - must do if u can stone statues- entry fee 500 yen-MUST DO!
In the back of the temple a short path leads through a bamboo forest.
Saga-Toriimoto Street-This street is just before you come to the Nembutsu-ji temple and is preserved in the style of Meiji Period.  Many of the traditional Machiya (townhousees) have now been converted to shops and restaurants including the Yudofu speciality restaurant we ate at that day.

Bamboo Forest
Next head through the Tenryu-ji Gardens straight to the famous Bamboo Forest of Arashiyama. There’s a relatively wide path leading through the huge bamboo grove.
Everyone wants to take a selfie among the huge bamboo trees. But you’ll need to bring a lot of patience to take pictures because masses of tourists push their way down this path too.
Our verdict: The bamboo forest is impressive, but the masses of people are just extremely distracting. If you want to take a selfie among bamboo plants, we’d recommend Kodai-ji (day 1) or Adashino Nenbutsu-ji Temple, which is also located in Arashiyama.
Stroll through the northwest of Arashiyama
The walk from the station to the northwest of Arashiyama is very idyllic and there are many beautiful temples along the side of the road. We’d definitely recommend walking one leg of the way there or back. We took the bus there and walked back.
Tourist groups don’t stray that far northwest and so suddenly you’ll find yourself alone in an idyllic suburb with traditional houses and lots of tiny temples.
It’s really worth spending some time exploring the area.


 The area north of the Togetsukyo Bridge is also known as Sagano, while the name "Arashiyama" technically just refers to the mountains on the southern bank of the river but is commonly used to name the entire district.


How to spend 2 weeks on a mid range budget?

Things to keep in mind about you two weeks
